# TeXDocker 
## Introduction
TeXDocker is a full TeX Live distribution that resides inside a container, so you can carry it everywhere and you will not have to lose time downloading the LaTeX distribution every time. Just build the Docker image in your computer and export it to a USB pendrive or hard drive.

TeXDocker supports compiling all kinds of documents you have in the host system. Also, it supports BibTeX. What's more, when the compilation of a document finishes, the container is destroyed and all temporal data generated by the compilation will be deleted.

## Base Docker Image
[dockerfile/debian](https://hub.docker.com/_/debian/)

## Usage
Build the image using the following command `docker build -t texdocker {DOCKERFILE_DIR}` where `{DOCKERFILE_DIR}` is the directory where the cloned Dockerfile from this repository is stored. For example, `docker build -t texdocker .` will build the Dockerfile stored in the current working path.

After building the image with the `texdocker` tag, issue the command `docker run --rm -v {DOCUMENT_PATH}:/tmp:rw -i texdocker < {DOCUMENT_FILENAME}.tex  > {DOCUMENT_FILENAME}.pdf` to compile a LaTeX document. where `{DOCUMENT_PATH}` is the directory where the document in LaTeX format is stored (and where the bibliography, image files and other dependencies are stored too) and `DOCUMENT_FILENAME`is the name of the document file. As an example, you can use the `example.tex` document from this repository to test TeX Docker.

If you are using Windows or OS X, please notice that, due to [limitations of Docker Machine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/containers/dockervolumes/#mount-a-host-directory-as-a-data-volume), `{DOCUMENT_PATH}` must be in `/Users` directory (OS X) or `C:\Users` directory (Windows).

## Reporting issues
Issues can be reported via the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/iMartinezMateu/texdocker/issues). 

Please take the time to review existing issues before submitting your own to prevent duplicates. Incorrect or poorly formed reports are wasteful and are subject to deletion.

## Submitting fixes and improvements
Fixes and improvements are submitted as pull requests via Github.
